# EntraID
- Entra ID was once called Azure AD (Azure Active Directory)
- Entra is the native platform of Azure for identity management. Entra is derivative of one of the most successful identity management products in the world: Microsoft Active Directory.
- Active Directory, **not to be confused** with Entra, is the **on-premises identity management**.
	- It handles network, objects, groups on-premises, and there's no cloud involved in a Microsoft Active Directory.
- Entra ID is no more than **an extension of the Active Directory** concept to the cloud.
- Entra is a **cloud native version** of handling users, groups and identity in the cloud.
- Even though there are a lot of overlaps between AD and Entra, **they're not** replaceable, interchangeable products.
- There's some things that **on-premises AD does** that **cloud AD does not**: protocols that work not over the internet, so they are not compatible with HTTP or TCP like **Kerberos** or **LDAP**
# Pricing Options
[Pricing documentation](https://www.microsoft.com/pt-br/security/business/microsoft-entra-pricing)
## Free Tier
- Basic identity and access management
- Included with Microsoft cloud subscriptions like Azure, Microsoft 365
- The free tier is not a limited plan, you can create for example, a lot of users and groups, however they do restrict concerning some of advanced features
	- For example: **there is no SLA** for the Free Tier, or Advanced Security Reports are not included in the free tier as well.
	- Free tier can't create **custom roles**
## Premium 1 (P1) Tier
- It is **$6.00 user/month**
- Available as standalone or included with Microsoft 365 E3 for enterprise customers and Microsoft 365 Business Premium for small to medium business.
- It integrates more advanced identity management features, including Hybrid users
- For the instance, you may have 1000 users, but **only 100 of them** need those advanced features. You can **select** which users **get the P1 at $6** and which remains as free users
	- For example: **there is SLA** for P1 tier. **Cross-tenant user synchronization** and also **Conditional Access** are some of the features included in the P1 tier.
## Premium 2 (P2) Tier
- It is **$9.00 user/month**
- Available as standalone or included with Microsoft 365 E5 for enterprise customers.
- It integrates premium identity protection and governance.
- P2 tier has that kind of **"AI" advanced threat management** that P1 tier have not.
	- For example: **Risk-based Conditional Access** has determined a user's behavior as risky, he tried to access some accounts with an IP address, finally he gets access to some, but it would be **blocked** because of the engagement in risky behavior
	- **Risky account** like a user that doesn't sign in for three years; **Risk event investigation** as well and many more.
## Governance
- It is **$7.00 user/month**
- It integrates an advanced set of identity governance capabilities for EntraID P1 and P2 customers. Special price for P2 customers.
- Microsoft provides those new premium features
	- For example: **Machine Learning Access Reviews**, **Identity Governance Dashboard**
# Managing Multiple Directories
- This section is about how to manage more than one tenant.
## Basic Concepts of Accounts & Subscriptions
### Account
- Either a **person** or a **program**
	- **Person** - Joe Smith joe@example.com: User name, password, MFA
	- **App** - Managed Identity: Represents a program or a service
### Tenant
[Tenant Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-create-new-tenant)
- A representation of an organization
- Usually represents by a public domain name - i.e. example.com
- Will be assigned a domain if no specified - i.e. example.onmicrosoft.com
- A dedicated instance of **Azure AD**
- Every azure account is part of **at least** one tenant
- You cannot assign the **same domain name** to multiple active directory tenants
### Subscription
- An agreement with Microsoft to use Azure services, and how you're going to pay for that
- All Azure resources usage gets billed to the payment method of the subscription
	- Free subscriptions
	- Pay-as-you-go
	- Enterprise Agreements
- Not every tenant **needs to have** a subscription
- Tenants can have **more than one** subscription
- More than one account can be the owner in a tenant